=head1 NAME

antiX Live Boot Parameters

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This document explains many of the boot parameters that are used
by B<I<antiX>> Live systems.  Most users will get by just fine by making
selections in the bootloader menus.  The boot menus provide a
convenient GUI for setting some of the options documented here.
Use the C<F12> key in the bootloader to see what boot options
are selected by your current menu choices.
 
=head1 Boot LiveCD/USB

These options control how the Live media boots.  In particular the
control where we look for the F<linuxfs> file.  The location of this
file will be used for other Live features such as persistence and
remastering.

=head2 The Boot Device

The primary job of Live initrd is to find the compressed file system
called a I<squashfs> file.  For B<I<antiX>> and MX this file is normally
named F<linuxfs>.   We need to find the device this file is on and find
the file on that device.

Normally we scan all cdrom (and dvd) and usb devices for that file.
This default behavior can be modified with the following options.
The easiest way to specify the boot device is the B<from> option
which specifies what type of device to boot from.

=over

=item from=*

The type of boot device.  Valid values B<cd hd usb>.  More than
one is allowed.  The default is B<usb,cd> so by default we will
only look at cdrom/dvd devices and usb devices to for the boot
directory.

=back

You can also specify a device more specifically but giving a device name
(like B<sda1>), a partition label, or a partition UUID.

=over

=item bdev=*

The name of the boot device.  For example B<bdev=sda1>.

=item blab

The partition label of the boot device.  

=item buuid

The UUID of the boot device.

=back 

=head2 The Boot Directory

By default, we look for the F<linuxfs> file and and persistence
files in the F</antiX> directory on the boot device.   If you want
to boot more than one Live system on the same device or if you
want to do a frugal install, you should change that directory
and use the B<bdir> parameter to point to the new directory.

=over

=item bdir=*

The boot directory.  This is the directory where we look for
the F<linuxfs> (squashfs) file, persistence files and live-remaster
files.  The default is F</antiX>.   The leading slash is optional.

=item sq=*

Specify the linuxfs file plus the boot directory all at once.
The default is F</antiX/linuxfs> but leading a leading slash
is optional.

=back

=head2 Debugging

Debugging the boot process is described in the L<FAQ|http://FAQ.html>.
Sometimes booting problems can be tracked down to a missing driver or
a driver that is not getting loaded.  These two boot parameters can
be helpful in tracking down such problems.

=over

=item bp=*

Set one or more breakpoints in the live-init script separated by
commas.  Use B<bp=?> to get a list of breakpoints to choose from.
The meanings may change with different versions so use B<bp=?> to
be sure.

 breakpoint 1) before loading modules
 breakpoint 2) before looking for linuxfs file
 breakpoint 3) after mounting boot device
 breakpoint 4) after mounting linuxfs file
 breakpoint 5) after mounting persistence device
 breakpoint 6) after copy to ram
 breakpoint 7) after mounting aufs
 breakpoint 8) before prepare switch_root
 breakpoint 9) right before starting init
 breakpoint F) After fsck
 breakpoint F) Before fsck
 breakpoint c) After toram copy file error
 breakpoint e) On possibly fatal error
 breakpoint f) in frugal install
 breakpoint i) after init= chroot
 breakpoint m) before makefs
 breakpoint r) After resize homefs rsync
 breakpoint r) Before resize homefs rsync
 breakpoint u) final umount
 breakpoint v) before check VID
 breakpoint x) before select device

=item verb=*

Control how much gets printed out during the early boot process.  The
default level is B<verb=5>.  Lower numbers print less, higher numbers
print more.  Usually B<6> or B<7> will show you more info without being
too obnoxious.  The full output is available in the
F</var/log/live/bootloader.log> file.  A partial version of the log file
is available at F</init.log> from within most breakpoints.

=back

=head2 Loading Modules

One of the primary tasks of the live-initrd is to mount the device
that holds the F<linuxfs> file which contains the final file system.
Modules (also called drivers) sometimes need to be loaded to allow
the kernel to talk to certain types of hardware.  Most of the time
this is taken care of automatically but if you have very old or
unusual hardware, there might be a glitch.

=over

=item load=*

Load one or more specific modules, separated by commas.  You
need to know the name of the module or modules you need for
this to be useful.

=item load=all

Load all modules in the initrd that are not hardware specific.
This is a shotgun approach just in case there is a module that
is available in the initrd that needs to be manually loaded
for your system to boot.

=item noload

Don't automatically load the standard list of modules.

=back

=head2 Other Booting options

These options affect the boot process but the don't fit into any of
the categories above.

=over 

=item fromiso=*

Use this to boot from a iso file.  This feature is deprecated because it
defaults some of the more advanced features of the Live system but is
supported due to popular (or otherwise) demand.  This can be abbreviated
as B<iso=*>.

=item try=*

The maximum number of seconds to try finding the boot directory.  The
default is 15 seconds.  This replaces B<rootdelay> which is no longer
used.

=back

=head1 Persistence

These options enable and control Live persistence which allows you to
make changes that will persist across reboots.  These options are
normally used on LiveUSBs but if you specify a persistence device (or
use the default LiveCD persistence device) then you can make use
persistence on a LiveCD.  In this case, the changes will have to be
saved on some other device that allows for read-write access.

B<I<New for antiX-14:>> If you enable peristence on a LiveCD and
and device with the label C<antiX-Persist> is not found then we
will give you a list of partitions to choose from and offer to
give that device the label C<antiX-Persist>.  If a form of
persistence is I<required> but the persistence file is not found
then we will offer to create it for you.  We do not offer to
create a persistence file if it is merely I<requested> with one
exception.  If root persistence is required and home persistence
is requested and neither C<rootfs> nor C<homefs> persistence
files exist then we will offer to create both a C<rootfs> file
and a C<homefs> file.


=over

=item persist=*

This is the main option for controlling Live persistence.  It can be
given one or more of the following parameters, separated by commas

=over


=item auto,a

Automatically create F<rootfs> and/or F<homefs> files if they
don't already exist and they are required.  Normally, we will
prompt the user for size and file system type.

=item hd

Only look on internal hard drives for the persistence device.
This is analogous to B<from=hd> for finding the boot device.

=item home!,h!

Enable and require home persistence.  The exclamation point
means this form of persistence is required.  A non-fatal
error will be thrown if it cannot be enabled.

=item home,h

Request home persistence but don't require it.  We will try
to enable home persistence but if we can't then this fact
is briefly noted and the boot continues normally.

=item root!,r!

Enable and require root persistence.  The exclamation point
means this form of persistence is required.  A non-fatal
error will be thrown if it cannot be enabled.

=item root,r

Request root persistence but don't require it.  We will try
to enable root persistence but if we can't then this fact
is briefly noted and the boot continues normally.

=item static,s

If root persistence is enabled then use the static version
of root persistence.  Normally, dynamic root persistence
is used. 

=item usb

Only look on usb partitions for the persistence device.
This is analogous to B<from=usb> for finding the boot device.


=back

=back


=head2 The Persistence Device

Just like the boot device can be specified generally with the
C<from=*> option and more specifically with options like C<bdev=*>,
the same choices are available for specifying the persistence
device.

On a LiveUSB or a frugal install, the default persistence
device is the boot device which is what you would expect.
Normally the persistence files will sit alongside the F<linuxfs>
file that we are booting from.

On a LiveCD the default persistence device is whatever device
has the disk label C<antiX-Persist>.  If you specify a persistence
device with one of the three options below then the defaults
are ignored.  

=over

=item pdev=*

The name of the persistence device.  For example B<pdev=sdb2>.

=item plab

The partition label of the persistence device.  

=item puuid

The UUID of the persistence device.

=back

=head2 Other Persistence Options

These options don't fit into any of the previous categories.

=over

=item ptry

How many seconds to wait for the persistence device to appear.
This is only relevant if the peristence device is different
from the boot device.  The default is 10 seconds.

=back

=head1 Remastering

These two options affect remastering.  Normally, remastering is done
automatically whenever there is a F<linuxfs.new> file in the same
directory as the F<linuxfs> file.   

=over

=item noremaster (B<I<LiveUSB Only>>)


Disable remastering even when a F<linuxfs.new> file is found.

=item rollback (B<I<LiveUSB Only>>)

Roll back to the previous version of F<linuxfs>.   If you remaster and
for some reason things go horribly wrong, then use this feature to get
back to the state right before you did the remaster.

=back

=head1 Frugal Install

B<I<New for antiX-14!>>  Automatically do a frugal install from a
LiveCD or LiveUSB to a hard drive or a usb drive.  Persistence
files can also be created automatically so you can literally
create and boot into an installed system in just a minute or two
(depending on the speed of your hardware).

There are two modes of operation that are triggered by the same
B<frugal> boot parameter: install mode and boot mode.  Normally
the frugal device is a partition  with the label C<antiX-Frugal>.
If such a device is not found then you will be given a list of
partitions to choose from.  Once you have selected a device, you
will be given an option to have it give the C<antiX-Frugal>
label.  If an antiX frugal install has not already been done on
the device you selected then an frugal install will be performed.

The next time you boot with the frugal option, we will
automatically boot from the C<antiX-Frugal> device into the
frugal system that was installed. Again, if a frugal install is
not found on that device, we will automatically create one.

If persistence is requested and the persistence files are not
found then we will offer to create them after we do the install.
If you want to force a persistence file to be created in a later
boot then I<require> that form of persistence with an
exclaimation point.

 frugal=root     (requested)
 frugal=root!    (required)

=over

=item frugal

Enable frugal mode.  Either boot into the existing frugal system
or create a new one if it does not already exist.

=item frugal=

A contraction of B<frugal persist=*>.   It is common to add
persist options when enabling frugal mode so you can add the
persist options directly to the frugal boot parameter. Example:
B<frugal=root,home>.

=back

=head2 The Frugal Device

Just like you can select the boot device and the persistence
device with device name, label, or uuid, you can do the same with
the frugal device.  If you specify the frugal device this way and
it is not found then we will give you a list of devices to choose
from, just like with the B<frugal> parameter, but we will I<not>
offer to label the device you have selected.

=over

=item fdev

The name of the frugal device.

=item flab

The partition label of the frugal device.

=item fuuid

The UUID of the frugal partition.

=back

=head1 X-Windows

These options affect X-windows.  They will all be carried over when you
do an install.  The various keyboards options are carried over in the
file F</etc/defaults/keyboard>.  The other options are carried over in
the file F</etc/X11/xorg.conf>.

=head2 Keyboard Options

A rather complete list of keyboard options and variants is usually
available at
L</usr/share/X11/xkb/rules/xorg.lst|file:///usr/share/X11/xkb/rules/xorg.lst>

=over

=item kbd=*

Set the keyboard layout.  This is usually one or more 2-letter country
codes separated by commas.  For example: B<kbd=gr,us>.  This will allow
users to quick switch between the US and the Greek keyboard layouts.

=item kbopt=*

Keyboard options.  These give special meaning to certain keys or key
combinations.  For example B<kbopt=ctrl:nocaps> turns the Caps Lock
key into an extra Control key.

=item kbvar=*

Keyboard variant.  These are variants to the keyboard layout.
For example B<kbvar=dvorak> will give you a
L<Dvorak|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dvorak_Simplified_Keyboard>
keyboard layout when you use the B<us> layout.

=back

=head2 Video Options

These options affect the X-windows video.

=over 

=item dpi=*

DPI stands for "dots per inch".  It controls the size of most fonts.
A larger DPI value will give you larger fonts and as smaller value
will give you smaller fonts.  The default is B<96>.  This setting
is stored in the I<Display Manager> configuration file.  On
B<I<antiX>> this is F</etc/slim.conf>.

=item xdrvr=*

Force a particular video driver to be used.  By default, the
X-Windows server will choose a driver that is tailored to work
with your specific video hardware.  Sometimes that driver will
fail on unusual or very old hardware.  You may need to add
the B<nomodeset> boot option to prevent a video driver from
taking control of the video hardware before X-Windows starts.
You can use F<inxi> to check which driver is actually being
used:

 inxi -G


=item xorgconf

Create an F<xorg.conf> file.  If B<xdrvr> or B<xres> are given
then F<xorg.conf> will be created automatically so there is
usually no point in using this options.

=item xres=*

Set the I<default> screen resolution in F<xorg.conf>.  This is usually
not needed because Xorg will automatically set the resolution.  All
resolutions that are found by probing your hardware will also be added
as alternatives to the default. 

=back

=head1 Mounting

These options control automatic and semi-automatic mounting of
block devices in the Live system.

=over

=item automount|amnt

Enable automounting.  All the partitions on a usb stick will get
mounted automatically when the usb stick is plugged in.

=item automount=*|amnt=*

In addition to enabling automounting as above, also mount some
or all partitions are boot-time.

=over

=item automount=all

Mount all partitions at boot-time.

=item automount=usb

Mount partitions on usb devices at boot-time.

=back

=item mount=*

Mount partitions at boot-time without enabling automounting.  The
options are just like those for B<automount> above.


=item fstab=*

This option controls the fstab hotplug feature.  Normally, fstab
entires and F</media> mountpoints will be created for you automatically
when you plug in a usb-stick.

=over

=item off

Turn off all fstab hotplug and automount features.  An F<fstab>
file will be created for you at boot-time and mountpoints for
partitions will be added under the F</media> directory at boot-time
but after that, no automatic changes to F<fstab> or the F</media>
mountpoints will be made.

=item nolabel

Don't use disk labels for F</media> mountpoints. Use UUIDs or
device names instead.

=item uuid

Use UUID as the fallback for mountpoint name if a label isn't used.
A label won't be used if it doesn't exist or if labels were turned
off with the B<nolabel> directive.

=item encode

Normally, if special characters are used in a partition label, the are
converted to underscore in the mountpoint name.  Use this directive to
use have the special characters encoded in hex instead.  This should
match the names of the symlinks in F</dev/disk/by-label/>.

=back

=back

=head1 Personalization

These options let you customize or personalize your system.  They
will all be carried over to the hard drive when you install.

=over

=item desktop=*

This option sets the default window manager and desktop icon manager (if
any).  For example: B<desktop=rox-icewm> will set the window manager to
be IceWM and will use Rox to handle desktop icons.  The only other
icon manager available is SpaceFM.  So B<desktop=space-fluxbox> will
use Fluxbox as the window manager and use SpaceFM to handle desktop
icons.

=item hostname=*

Set the hostname of the system.  The default hostname is C<antiX1>.


=item lang=*

In B<I<antiX>>, this option sets more than just the language.  It
also sets the keyboard layout, the Debian mirror, and the timezone.
If you set any of these others explicitly then that setting will
over-ride the value set via B<lang>.

=item mirror=*

Set the country of the Debian mirror.  Usually this option is set to
a 2-letter country code such as B<mirror=gr>.

=item tz=*

Set the timezone.  Example: B<tz=America/Denver>.  Some languages,
such as en_US (United States English) cover more than one timezone
so setting the B<lang> may not set the correct timezone.

=back

=head1 Other Live System Features

These options control features that are specific to the Live system
but don't fit into any of the previous categories.  Some of these
are available in the bootloader menus.

=over

=item antiX=*|aX=*

Disables certain startup services for a faster boot and a smaller,
faster system. Valid values are a combination of the following letters:

 L = lean        Turn off some services
 M = mean        Turn off some networking services
 X = Xtralean    Turn off even more services
 D = nodbus      Dont' launch dbus

=item checkfs (B<I<LiveUSB Only>>)

Perform file system check on the B<LiveUSB>.  This won't check the file
system of a LiveCD.  Will also check the filesystem of the persistence
device (if different from the boot device) and the file systems on the
persistence files F<rootfs> and F<homefs> if they exist and are enabled.
It will only check the following types of file systems: ext2, ext3, and
ext4.

=item gfxsave=* (B<I<LiveUSB Only>>)

Set the bootloader current bootloader settings as the defaults.
Valid values: B<custom>, B<menus>, B<both>, and B<reset>.
B<I<Note:>> the B<gfsave> options will usually not work on a
frugal install.  

=item md5|checkmd5

Check the md5sum of the three primary files needed to boot a live
system: F<linuxfs>, F<vmlinuz>, and F<initrd.gz>.  If this test
passes then your boot media should be good although this won't
necessarily catch intermittent problems.

=item nocheckfs

The LiveUSB acts like an installed system and will automatically
check its own filesystem based the time since the last check and/or
the number of mounts since the last check.  Use this option to turn
this feature off.

=item toram

Copy the entire F<linuxfs> file into RAM.  This takes up RAM.  The
amount of RAM used will be about the same as the size of the .iso
file used to create the LiveCD or LiveUSB.  It will also take some
time when you first boot to copy the file into RAM.  But after this,
the system will run very fast.  You can also eject the LiveCD (or
remove the LiveUSB while the system is running.

=back
 
=head1 Option Index


