=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

The Linux Virtual Consoles -- a Quick Guide

=head1 SYNOPSIS

There are several text-only consoles available in Linux that function
outside of graphical environments like X-Windows.  The default
resolution is poor but if you use the C<vga> boot parameter to increase
the resolution they become very useful.  It is standard to have six of
these virtual consoles available.  Once you learn how to increase the
resolution and navigate between consoles, they can be a power tool.

=head1 Navigating the Consoles

=head2 Arrow Keys and Function Keys

The easiest way to move between virtual consoles is to use C<Alt-Left>
and C<Alt-Right> to switch between adjacent consoles.  Use C<Alt-F1>
through C<Alt-F6> to jump directly to a virtual console.  The
C<Ctrl-Alt-Fn> combo also works.

=head2 From the Command Line

The C<chvt> command lets you switch from one virtual console to another.
For example:

 chvt 1

will switch to the first virtual console which often has messages from
when the system booted.  Of course, if you switch to a console that
is not yet opened then you will have to use the arrow or function keys
to get to a working one.

=head2 To and From X-Windows

If X-Windows has started then it usually starts in Virtual-Console-7.
You can get to from Virtual-Console-6 with <Alt-Right> or from any
virtual consoles with C<Alt-F7> or C<Ctrl-Alt-F7>.

To get back to the virtual consoles from X-Windows, you I<must>
use the C<Ctrl-Alt-Fn> combinations.  They other combinations
will not work when you are in X-Windows.

The C<chvt> command works from within X-Windows but you need to
run it as root if you are in X-Windows.

=head2 Inside of VirtualBox

If you are running VirtualBox, use the I<Host> key (by default, this is
the right C<Ctrl> key) combined with C<F1> to C<F7> to get to a virtual
console (or back to X-Windows).  You can't use the C<Ctrl-Alt> combos
because these will take you to the virtual consoles on the I<host
system>.  Once you are in a virtual console in VirtualBox you can
use the standard C<Alt-Left>, C<Alt-Right>, and C<Alt-Fn> combos.


=head1 Scroll buffer

Use C<Shift-PageUp> to see some of the lines that have scrolled off of
the top of a virtual console.   Once you switch consoles, or switch to
X-Windows, this information is lost.

=head1 Select Theme

Certain antiX kernels have the fbcondecor feature (sometimes called
"splash") that lets you give the virtual consoles background images.

In B<I<antiX-14>> you can use the C<splash-select> program inside
of a virtual console to change the theme on the current console.

=head1 Different Theme on each Console

The C</sbin/splash-all> is called from C</etc/rc.local> to put
a different theme on each virtual console on the Live system.
You can select a different set of themes by passing them in as
command line arguments. For example:

  /sbin/spash-all 2:antiX-blue 3:antiX-rev-purple

Will set the themes on the second and third virtual consoles.
The themes are all under the C</etc/splash/> directory.

=head1 Boot Parameters

Boot parameters can be used to disable X-Windows and to set the
resolution of the virtual consoles.

=head2 The C<vga> Boot Parameter

If you have a modern graphics card from certain manufacturers then the
resolution of the virtual consoles may get automatically set to the
maximum possible.  Here is a table of some VGA resolutions.  Not all
resolutions are available on all systems.

  Width   Height  VGA parameter
   800      600        789
  1024      640        877
  1024      768        792
  1152      720        872
  1280      800        864
  1280     1024        795
  1440      900        867
  1400     1050        834
  1600     1200        799
  1600     1200*       839

The C<839> value is known to work in VirtualBox.  The C<799>
has been published in several places but it does not work in
VirtualBox and has not been tested by us in other situations.


=head1 Special Features

=over

=item Mouse Support 

You can enable mouse support in the virtual consoles with the gpm
(general purpose mouse) service.

=item Movies and Images

You can display images and even watch movies in the virtual consoles
when they have framebuffer support which is enabled with the C<vga> boot
parameter.

=back


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 1014
BitJam for antiX L<http://antix.freeforums.org/>
