=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

desktop-defaults - Utility / wrapper to set and start default applications

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This program is a standalone utility or a wrapper depending on the 
implementation. It is meant to allow the user to set an application as the 
default application in only one spot for all applications. 

=head1 How to Use

To use run desktop-defaults-set and choose the appropiate .desktop files for 
the programs that you would like to see as the default for each heading. After
selecting the default programs, you can call them by running 
desktop-defaults-run --ITEM

=head1 Setting Defaults

Run desktop-defaults-set.
For each item choose the appropriate .desktop file.
Normally these reside in /usr/share/applications... but the potentially could
be anywhere in the system.
 
Examples of such cases:

=over

=item Custom.desktop

If you make a custom .desktop file ( utilizing the new "Personal" menu ) 
you would be able to navigate to that directory and choose your 
Custom.desktop file as the default.

=item Custom applications

If you install an custom application, home grown or packaged in another 
method (usually apps in /opt). You can utilize a .desktop file that is 
related to the applications. A common one is Firefox (/opt/firefox) for 
default web browser.

=back

Press "OK" to set the defaults, "Cancel" to continue to use the global settings 
(or older user settings).


=head1 Running defaults

Defaults can be run via the desktop-defaults-run program. However 
desktop-defaults-set also attempt to change the mimetype files to allow 
for your chosen application to work in your file manager as well for matching
mime types.

=head3 Options

=over

=item desktop-defaults-run -h

View the help information (also displayed on this page via the following options)

=item desktop-defaults-run -fm | --file-manager

Run the default chosen file manager. 

Please note that by default the file manager default matches the session chosen.
So if rox-xxxx was choosen the default file manager will be rox. If space-xxxx was chosen, 
the default file manager will be spacefm. If no icon manager was chosen, the default will 
be the chosen one. This can be overridden with /etc/desktop-session/desktop-defaults.conf 
(~/.desktop-session/desktop-defaults.conf for per user settings). 

Setting 

 OVERRIDE_SESSION_FM="X"

To either 

 OVERRIDE_SESSION_FM="true"

to override the session selected file manager and use your choice only! OR

 OVERRIDE_SESSION_FM="false"

to follow the session selected file manager

=item desktop-defaults-run -t | --terminal

Run the default chosen terminal application

=item desktop-defaults-run -e | --email 

Run The default chosen email client (or webpage if custom .desktop setup)

=item desktop-defaults-run -te | --text-editor

Run the default chosen text editor

=item desktop-defaults-run -b | --browser

Run the default chosen web browser

=item desktop-defaults-run -i | --images

Run the default chosen image viewer

=item desktop-defaults-run -v | --video

Run the default chosen video player

=item desktop-defaults-run -a | --audio

Run the default chosen audio player

=item desktop-defaults-run -r | --root

Precede any of the above options to run the option as root user (requires gksu)
Examples:

 desktop-defaults-run -r -t 
 desktop-defaults-run --root --terminal

=item Extra command strings

All options can take 2nd/3rd + option for when running a default. This 
becomes particularily handy for things like when you want to open a 
webpage with your default web browser (custom email.desktop file), or 
open a file as root with your default text editor.

Example:

 desktop-defaults-run -b http://antix.freeforums.org

open the forum in your default browser

 desktop-defaults-run -r -b http://localhost:631 (B<Not recomended>)

open the printer configuration in root browser

 desktop-defaults-run -te ~/.desktop-session/desktop-defaults.conf

open desktop-defaults.conf as user for user configuration

 desktop-defaults-run -r -te /etc/desktop-session/desktop-defaults.conf

open desktop-defaults.conf as root for global configuration


=back 

=head1 LICENSE

All code is licensed under the 
L<GPL-v3|https://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html> or later.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2014
Dave for antiX L<http://antix.freeforums.org/>
