=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

desktop-session Session manager / loader

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This program is an intermidiate set of scripts to loading the session.
It is similar in principle to a glorified ~/.xinitrc. The job of
desktop-session is to take input from the login manager, and output
a set of programs / functions in order to load a "session".

=head1 How to Use

Desktop-session is enabled by default to handle login signals from slim.
Choosing Rox-xxxx or Space-xxxx will be forwarded by slim to 
desktop-session were it is then determined that you would like to load
xxxx as the window manager and Rox or Space as the Icon manager. From
here it uses options set in /etc/desktop-session/desktop-session.conf 
(OR ~/.desktop-session/desktop-session.conf) to start more items that 
you would like to see in the session. (Conky for example) There are
several options that are handled by default (with Full), however it
is not limited to these options.

=over

=item B<rox-fluxbox>

fluxbox window manager with rox pinboard and other startup apps

=item B<space-fluxbox>

fluxbox window manager with spacefm desktop and other startup apps

=item B<min-fluxbox>

fluxbox only, minimal ram as nothing else is started!

=item B<fluxbox>

fluxbox only, with other startup applications.

=item B<rox-icewm>

icewm window manager with rox pinboard and other startup apps

=item B<space-icewm>

icewm window manager with spacefm desktop and other startup apps

=item B<min-icewm>

icewm only, minimal ram as nothing else is started!

=item B<icewm>

icewm only, with other startup applications.

=item B<rox-jwm>

jwm window manager with rox pinboard and other startup apps

=item B<space-jwm>

jwm window manager with spacefm desktop and other startup apps

=item B<min-jwm>

jwm only, minimal ram as nothing else is started!

=item B<jwm>

jwm only, with other startup applications.

=back

If you wish to start a session from another login manager (or from the CLI via startx)
you will need to specify desktop-session as the session handling script. 

For example with startx.

log in as user into the console.

type: startx /usr/local/bin/desktop-session DESKTOP-CODE 

Where DESKTOP-CODE is replaced with any of the codes from the above list.


=head1 Configuration

Configuration is handled in /etc/desktop-session/desktop-session.conf.
This is the global configuration file, so be careful! Any changes made 
in this file will affect all users B<Unless> the user has a user based
desktop-session.conf file (~/.desktop-session/desktop-session.conf). In
This case all options specified in the user file will override what is 
in the global configuration file.

=head3 Configuration Options

=over

=item STARTUP_DELAY="X"

Session service delay.

This is to set how long to delay startup to give enough time for the wm to completely load,
before starting to load other applications. This wait period will be started after the 
window manager has been found running ( has a pid ).
TIME is expressed in seconds

Options: 0-9...

 STARTUP_DELAY="1" 

will delay for 1 second.

 STARTUP_DELAY="10"

will delay for 10 seconds.

This is useful for systems that are not quite fast enough and 
applications (such as the icon managers) start before the window manager
finishes loading and therfor end up looking like they are not running.

=item TIMES_TO_CHECK="X"

Session window manager check

This is to set the amount of times desktop-session checks for a running window manager
before giving up and denying the session to load.

Options: 0-9...

Example:

 TIMES_TO_CHECK="20"

=item FORCE_LOAD="X"

Session give up override

This is to set the override if the window manager is never found to be running by 
desktop-session after X number of times (Specified above). This will force the 
session to load if set to true.

Options: true | false

Example:
 
 FORCE_LOAD="true"

=item SESSION_PROTECT="X"

Session Protect.
This is how to protect the user from automatic updating of any file within desktop-session.
Examples of automatically updated files are the menu, any file compare within file_compare, etc.

Options for this are: 

=over

=item true 

Strictly protect the user, leave the user to deal with any of the updating

=item ask

Notify me at startup of any changes and allow me to choose what to update

=item false

Just update me, I dont want to worry about falling behind.

=back

Example:

 SESSION_PROTECT="ask" 

=item NOTIFICATION_TEXT="X"

Notification text or program

This is where the text is set for the notification that the session is loading.
This can be a specified text string or a program that will return a text string

Options:

=over 

=item Session is Loading, Please Wait.....

Specific Text Option. Single line.

=item /usr/games/fortune

Program to return text

=back

Example:

 NOTIFICATION_TEXT="Session is Loading, Please Wait....."
 
 NOTIFICATION_TEXT="/usr/games/fortune"

=item STARTUP_DIALOG="X"

Startup Dialog Enable

This is where to enable or disable the startup dialog.
When Enabled it will run only once per login, not on restarts or desktop switching.

Options: true | false

Example:

 STARTUP_DIALOG="true"
 
=item STARTUP_DIALOG_CMD="X"

Startup Dialog Command. 

This is where to setup what you would like to run for a startup dialog.

Example:
 
 STARTUP_DIALOG_CMD="yad --image='info' --text='this is my startup dialog'"
 
 STARTUP_DIALOG_CMD="leafpad ~/.startup-text
 
 STARTUP_DIALOG_CMD="/usr/local/lib/desktop-session/startup-dialog.py"
 
=item LOAD_CONKY="X"

Session Load Conky

This is where you set if you would like to load conky or not.
Loading conky here as apposed to a startup file allows us to incorporate
conky into you sessions by loading session specific conkyrcs'

If you wish to load a specific conkyrc for a specific window manager, take 
the name of the window manager, copy your conkyrc to ~/.conky and name /
rename that conkyrc to WindowManager-conkyrc. If you do not want a session 
specific conky simply remove all formatted options (rename *.bk) and 
desktop-session will load the default ~/.conkyrc

Options: true | false

Example:

 LOAD_CONKY="true" 
 
In desktop-session.conf to load conky in general (~/.conkyrc). And 
copy / make....

 ~/.conky/icewm-conkyrc
 
To load that conkyrc upon loggin into an icewm based session.

=item LOAD_XDG_AUTOSTART="X"

Session Load XDG Autostart enabled items

This will load any application that is setup to autostart via xdg autostart directories /
.desktop files.

Options: true | false

Example:
 
 LOAD_XDG_AUTOSTART="true"
 
=item LOAD_STARTUP_FILE="X"

Session Load Desktop-session startup

This will enable the global /etc/desktop-session/startup file 
(or ~/.desktop-session/startup if existing) if enabled. The 
startup file is in bash script format, so however you would like to 
run / enable something it is only restrained by what bash can do.

Options: true | false

Example:
LOAD_STARTUP_FILE="true"

=item SCREEN_BLANK_TIME="X"

Screen Blank Time

This is where you set the time value that it takes for your screen to 
"blank" (turn off / go blank). The time value is in secconds.
Please note you can edit this manually, as well as via the set-screen-blank
app (if installed)

Options: [0-9]....

Example: 

 SCREEN_BLANK_TIME="600"

For 10 minutes

 SCREEN_BLANK_TIME="3600"

For 1 hour


=back

=head1 LICENSE

All code is licensed under the 
L<GPL-v3|https://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html> or later.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 1014
BitJam for antiX L<http://antix.freeforums.org/>
