=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Frequently Asked Questions about antiX Linux

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over


=item L<Boot LiveCD/USB|/Boot LiveCD/USB>

******

=item L<Boot from an iso file|/Boot from an iso file>

=item L<Sound doesn't Work|/Sound doesn't Work>

**

=item L<Wireless Networking|/Wireless Networking>

=item L<Change the Default Window Manager|/Change the Default Window Manager>

******

=item L<Youtube Videos (Flash)|/Youtube Videos (Flash)>

=item L<USB Automount|/USB Automount>

***

=item L<Set the Time|/Set the Time>

*****

=item L<Keyboard Layout|/Keyboard Layout>

*****

=item L<Repair Grub|/Repair Grub>

=item L<Persistence, Live Remaster, and Snapshot|/Persistence, Live Remaster, and Snapshot>

=item L<Create LiveUSB or Frugal Install|/Create LiveUSB or Frugal Install>

=item L<Printing|/Printing>

=back

=head1 Boot LiveCD/USB

The antiX LiveCD and LiveUSB boot just fine on many systems without any
problem.  There are four common problem areas described below.   If this
FAQ doesn't help you resolve your issue then please be clear about when
in the boot process the problem occurred.  For example, describe the
last thing that was seen on the screen.  

=head2 1) Can't get to bootloader

The bootloader should be the first thing you see after the Power-On
Self Test (POST).

=for html
<span class="image">
<a href="images/post.png" target="_blank">Example POST Screen</a>
</span> Yours may be quite different.


The antiX bootloader has a black background with
some stars and an image of the planet Earth.

=for html
<span class="image">
<a href="images/boot-loader.jpg" target="_blank">Boot Loader Screen shot</a>
</span>

=head3 Possible reasons why you can't get to the bootloader menu

=over

=item Can't select the LiveCD/USB as the boot device

Ask for help on how to get to the BIOS settings or the boot menu on your
particular computer.  Sometimes instructions flash by quickly during the
Power-On Self Test.

=item You're trying to boot a LiveUSB on an Apple Mac computer

Use the LiveCD instead.

=item Booting in Secure Mode on a computer with UEFI

Switch to Legacy Boot Mode.

=item Defective LiveCD/USB

For a LiveCD, check the md5sum of the .iso file and of the LiveCD.
For a LiveUSB or a LiveCD, see if it will boot on another machine.

=back

=head2 2) Can't find the linuxfs file

This is the most common error when trying to boot the LiveCD/USB.
When you get this error the screen looks something like:

 Welcome to antiX-14 Killah P!
 Current boot codes:
     quiet antiX=MXL
 Scan usb,cd devices.  Look for boot file(s) antiX/linuxfs
 Filtered devices  /dev/sr0
 Retry for 15 seconds ...............................

 ====================================================================
 Fatal Error
 Could not find linuxfs file "antiX/linuxfs"
 ====================================================================

 --------------------------------------------------------------------
     p = power off
     r = reboot
 --------------------------------------------------------------------

=for html
<span class="image">
<a href="images/boot-error-1.png" target="_blank">Boot Error Screen Shot</a>
</span>

=head3 Solutions for finding linuxfs file

Three files are needed to boot the live system, F<vmlinuz>, the Linux
kernel; F<initrd.gz> the initial file system and boot script, and
finally F<linuxfs> which contains the entire compressed file system.
The first two are found by the bootloader.  The primary purpose of the
initrd is to find that third file.  If it can't be found, that usually
means the device it is located on could not be created or mounted in the
initrd.

This is usually because either a driver is missing or, on older
machines, a boot parameter is needed to let a modern kernel access older
hardware.  The most likely cure is a boot parameter.

If none of the suggestions below work then please report the problem at
the L<antiX Forums|http://antix.freeforums.org/>.  

=over

=item Need boot parameter

As the kernel evolves the boot parameters needed to get older hardware
to work have changed.  Here are four likely candidates.

=over

=item acpi=off

This boot parameter is the most likely to work.  You can set it by
selecting C<no acpi> in the C<[F4 Options]> in the bootloader.
Try this first.

=item acpi_use_timer_override=1

On some older systems the C<acpi=off> option can disable the
USB bus.  Think of this option as a weaker form of C<acpi=off>
that will allow you to boot but won't disable the USB bus.
Try this after you were able to boot with C<acpi=off> to
see if it allows more hardware to work.

B<I<FIXME:>> should we add this to the C<[F4 Options]> menu?

=item pci=biosirq

This options is a work-around for a BIOS that is configured
to only work with older versions of Windows.  The proper
solution is to go into the advanced BIOS settings and set
C<Installed OS> to C<Other>.

=item nousb2

This parameter instructs the initrd to disable the usb-2 bus.  
It is only useful when trying to boot a LiveUSB on a few older
systems.

B<I<FIXME:>> Is this still needed at all?  I don't think it
is.

=back

=item Missing driver

It is possible that your hardware needs to use a module that
is not being loaded automatically.  The following boot parameter
will load all modules that are available.  

=over

=item load=all

=back

If this parameter is required to boot the please let us know so we can
try to make sure the driver you need gets loaded automatically.

=back

=head2 3) Blank screen or lose video sync early in boot process

The next hurdle in the boot process is at a stage called I<Kernel Mode
Switch> or I<Modeset>.  This is when the kernel uses the same driver for
th virtual consoles and X-Windows.  When it works it allows for seamless
switching between those two display modes.  When it doesn't work, the
computer is unusable.  It only happens with certain graphics hardware
and drivers.  But switching to a different graphics driver won't solve a
modeset problem because the modeset happens very early in the boot
process, well before the time when normal graphics drivers are loaded.

It is usually only a problem on older machines or machines where the
monitor cannot support the video card at its highest resolutions. It
usually happens a few seconds after the boot has started before much
text has been written to the screen:

 Welcome to antiX-14 Killah P!
 Current boot codes:
     quiet antiX=MXL
 Scan usb,cd devices.  Look for boot file(s) antiX/linuxfs
 Filtered devices  /dev/sr0
 Mounted boot device. Mounted device /dev/sr0 at /live/boot-dev
 The /init program took 1.23 seconds
 INIT: version 2.88 booting
 [info] Using makefile-style concurrent boot in runlevel S
 [ ok ] Starting the hotplug events dispatcher: udevd.
 [ ok ] Synthesizing the intial hotplug evens...done.
 [....] Waiting for /dev to be fully populated..._

=for html
<span class="image">
<a href="images/kms-error.png" target="_blank">Modeset Error Screen Shot</a>
</span>

The solution for this problem is in the S<C<[F5 Video Mode]>> menu
in the bootloader.  Select either S<C<[F5 Video Mode]>> --> C<safe>
or S<C<[F5 Video Mode]>> --> C<vesa>.

=over 

=item safe 

Disables L<Kernel Mode
Setting|https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/kernel_mode_setting>.  This
should suffice to get you past this hurdle.  You can still get good
video performance when this option is used.  The downside is there will
be some flickering and a slight delay when you switch between X-Windows
and the virtual consoles.

=item vesa

This is even safer than C<safe> mode.   In addition to disabling Kernel
Mode Setting, it also forces use of the C<vesa> driver when X-Windows
starts.  Do not expect good video performance when the C<vesa> driver is
used.  

=back

=head2 4) X-Windows does not start

This is usually caused by a problem with the video driver.  Try the two
C<[F5 Video Mode]> options in the bootloader menu described in the section
directly above.  You will get better performance with the C<safe> option
but X-Windows is more likely to work if you use the C<vesa> option.

=head1 Boot from an iso file

=head1 Sound doesn't Work

If you do not have a volume icon, the most likely reason is that  the
drivers for your card is not loaded.  Some older, card and even some of
the newest cards, are not supported by ALSA.

=head2 Wrong Sound card is set as default

Computers often have more than one sound "card".  The term card means
audio interface, not a physical card.  For example, a usb sound dongle
counts as a card.  So does any I<video> card that has HDMI output.  That
is because HDMI includes audio as well as video.

You can see a list of of sound devices on your system with:

 aplay -l

A shorter list of just the names of the devices is obtained
with:

 cat /proc/asound/card[0-9]*/id

Example:

 cat /proc/asound/card[0-9]*/id
 SB
 NVidia

You can try using different sound cards by running C<alsmixer>


=head2 Proprietary drivers or firmware need to be installed

=head1 Wireless Networking

=head1 Change the Default Window Manager

We use the SLiM display manager (the display manager offers you a
graphical login and allows you to select a window manager) because it
is small and fast and lightweight.  But it is also light on features
that many people have come to expect.  In order to change the default
window manager or to add a window manager to the list available via the
C<[F1]> key in the SLiM login screen, simply run:

 update-default-desktop

B<I<FIXME:>> Should there be a menu entry for C<update-default-desktop>?

B<I<FIXME:>> This section will need to be updated if we use
C<desktop-session>.

=head1 Youtube Videos (Flash)

=head1 Keyboard variant and layout

=head1 Screen blanking

=head1 USB Automount

=head2 USB Automount on Live systems

On the Live system, the easiest way to enable USB automounting is in the
bootloader C<[F4 Options]> menu.  Partitions get automounted under the
F</media> directory. You have the following choices:

=over

=item automount

Automatically mount usb sticks with they are plugged in.  You still must
unmount them before they are unplugged.

=item mount usb

In addition to automatically mounting usb sticks when they are plugged
in, mount all usb sticks at boot time.

=item mount all

In addition to mounting usb sticks when they are plugged in and mounting
all usb sticks at boot time, also mount all hard drive partitions at
boot time.

=back

B<Note:> Even if no automounting is selected, the Live system will
automatically create F<fstab> entries and mountpoints under F</media>
whenever a usb stick is plugged in.  This makes it easy for you to mount
usb sticks from within programs like C<spacemFM> file manager.  It also
lets a normal user mount partitions directly from the command line.

=head2 USB Automount on installed systems

B<I<FIXME:>> Need instructions for installed systems.

=head1 Set the Time

If your clock time is always wrong, it is due to one more more of the
following issues.  It is best to address them in this order otherwise
you might have to backtrack.

=over 

=item Wrong Timezone

=item Wrong System Time

=item Wrong Selection of UTC versus Localtime


=back

=head2 Select Timezone

When you boot the LiveCD/USB before you install, you can select the
timezone with the C<F3 Timezone]> menu.  The timezone will also get set
if you select a language with the C<[F2 Language]> menu.  An explicit
timezone will, of course, override a timezone that is associated with a
language.  This setting will carry over to when you install.  You will
also get a change to set the timezone in the graphic installer.

If you want to set the timezone after you've installed, the easiest
thing (for B<base> and B<full> systems) is to use the F<antiX Control
Centre>.   

 antiX Control Center --> System --> Set Date and Time

For B<core> systems or other systems that don't have the control
centre, you can do this from the command line with:

 sudo /usr/sbin/dpkg-reconfigure tzdata

Do this first. You should also be able to check the current value
with

 cat /etc/timezone

=head2 Set System Time with the C<date> Command


=head2 Select UTC or Local Time for Hardware Clock

Once you are sure the timezone is correct, you can work on setting your
hardware clock.  You must decide if you want your hardware clock set to
Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) or local time.  It is best to use UTC
because this way it does not have to change if you move and change time
zones.  But if you are dual booting with a Windows system then you
should leave your hardware clock set to local time and let Windows make
the timezone and daylight savings time adjustments.

B<I<NOTE:>> If you use local time in your hardware clock then you
and you are not dual booting with Windows then you will have to
manually adjust for daylight savings time.  

You configure the hardware clock with the C<hwclock> command.  First
do:

 man hwclock 

and then run:

 sudo /sbin/hwclock --show

to see what it is set to. It always reports in local time which is why
you need to first make sure your timezone is set correctly.  Use:

 sudo /sbin/hwclock --localtime

or

  sudo /sbin/hwclock --utc 
  
depending on whether you want your hardware clock to be set to local time
or UTC. 

B<I<ZZZZZZZZ>>

=head2 Hardware clock

Then, after you get your date command working via the sudo command you
posted, you can use "hwclock --systohc" to set the hardware clock so it
matches your system time. Again, you need the timezone and
local-time/UTC choice set correctly first (although if you want to
*assume* they are set correctly already then this is the only command
you need to run to get your changes to the "date" command to stick. If
you assumed incorrectly then you will likely get mysteriously screwed by
DST a few times per year).

=head2 Time drift

Finally, if you are having problems with hwclock drift or if you are a
perfectionist then you can install the C<ntp> package which will use
time servers on the net to keep your clock exactly on time. But you have
to first go through the steps above before ntp will work correctly.

=head1 Keyboard Layout

=head2 Set up the selection of keyboard layouts

The easiest way to set the keyboard layout is with the C<[F2 Language]>
menu in the Live bootloader.   In addition to setting the language, this
will also set the keyboard layout and timezone.  These settings will be
automatically transfer when you install.

B<I<FIXME:>> Are the following instructions correct?

If you want to choose your own custom selection of keyboard layouts or
if you want to change the list of keyboard layouts that are accessible
then you have to set the layouts manually.  For example, let's say you
want to be able to choose between French, Greek, and Spanish layouts.
To get this change to happen immediately, run the following command:

  setxkbmap -layout fr,el,es

To make the change permanent so it will be remembered across reboots,
edit (as root) the file F</etc/default/keyboard> and change the
C<XKBLAYOUT> line to be:

 XKBLAYOUT="fr,el,es"

=head2 Select a particular keyboard layout

The easiest way to select a keyboard layout is with the C<fbxkb>
application running in the system tray.  It will display the flag
associated with the language of the current layout.  Click on the flag
to cycle through the different layouts you have chosen in the previous
step.  This application can only handle up to four different layouts at
the same time.

If C<fbxkb> is not available or if you just prefer to use the command
line, you can select which keyboard layout to use with the C<setxkbmap>
program.  For example, to set the current layout to French, use the
command:

 setxkblayout fr

B<Hint:> if you want to play around with this, first use this command to
set the layout to one that you are comfortable with.  Then if you set it
to a layout that is confusing, you can use the <Up-Arrow> key to get
back to the command that sets the layout to the one you are familiar
with.  The <Up-Arrow> and <Enter> keys are the same in all keyboard
layouts.

=head1 Repair Grub

=head1 Persistence, Live Remaster, and Snapshot

=head1 Create LiveUSB or Frugal Install

=head1 Printing
