=head1 NAME

What's New in antiX-14-a3.2

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This lists what is new and is a place-holder for the mythical docs
to come.  The menu above is not fully functional.

=head1 Desktop Session

=over

=item new min-xxxx desktop codes

In addition to Rox-xxxx and Space-xxxx desktop codes we offer
min-xxxx desktop codes which  disable desktop icons and system tray
icons and conky.  These allow you to boot directly into a small
memory footprint GUI.  The difference between min-xxxx and just
xxxx is that the min version disables system tray icons and conky.

=item New startup-dialog.py

Toggled via C<STARTUP_DIALOG=> in F<desktop-session.conf>

=item Customize "Paint drying" text

Accepts either text or programs that return text:

    NOTIFICATION_TEXT="This is my notification"

    NOTIFICATION_TEXT="/usr/games/fortune"

=item move most programs to /usr/local/lib/desktop-session

This should not affect users.  If it does, Please let us
know.  We are trying to clear out programs from F</usr/local/bin>
that aren't normally called from the command line.

=item Fix Alternative Desktops menus

Add back Rox-fluxbox.

Add min-xxxx options.

=item

=item

=item

=item

=item

=back 

=head1 Live Initrd

=over

=item  Start up and shutdown init scripts 

Almost all of the live startup and shutdown init scripts have been
moved into the initrd.  This means the final persist-save will be
run in the command line.  The only exception was
live-restore-services which must be run after all other normal
services start so it is called from inside F</etc/rc.local>.

=item Systemd

These changes should make live startup on systemd work much better
but I have not tested it.  There is still a problem with the live
shutdown with systemd.  For now, you will have to run persist-save
manually on live systemd systems.

=item

=item

=back 

=head1 Bootloader

On a LiveUSB, the bootloader will get updated automatically on
the first boot so you won't see the new bootloader until the
second boot.  This is only for this testing mini-release.


=over

=item Default 1024 x 768 resolution

We will probably still with our standard 800 x 600 for the final
release but I wanted our testers to have a chance to see this
higher resolution.

You can change the default resolution but commenting and
uncommenting the layout=xxx lines in F<gfxboot.cfg>.  The comment
character is semi-colon.

=item Fallback to 640 x 480 resolution

If your hardware does not support the default resolution (via BIOS
which is usually rather limited) then we fall back to  640 x 480
resolution.  We can also fall back further to letting you enter in
codes to select the main boot option but I have not figured out how
to add help that explains what these options are.  The codes are the
in the new LABEL lines in syslinux.cfg and isolinux.cfg.

=item Fn Menus

Which Fn menus are included changes with the resolution.  This
is to help make sure all the menus fit even with different
languages are used.  Most notably, the "F1 Help" entry has been
dropped at 800 x 600 and at 640 x 480 even though F1 will still
open up the help screen.

=item Help Screen

The size of the help screen has been slightly enlarged.  The size
should be the same for both 800 x 600 and 640 x 480.  It is even
larger at 1024 x 768.

=item Desktop menu

The Desktop menu is no longer replaced by the Save menu even though
we still remember your the last desktop you used on the liveUSB.
This may be too confusing though because the default choice in the
"F6 Desktop" menu is no longer respected.  I don't know what to
do about this.  Even if we don't explicitly save the desktop choice,
it will be saved with root persistence or home persistence or even
remastering.

Maybe the best thing would be to add a "default" entry and let
people be surprised by what desktop it selects.  This is the
default that will get changed with persistence.  If a user wants
to select a particular desktop then they can do it by selecting
a non-default entry.  This is more honest in a way.  The only
thing we lose is there is no immediate indication of what the
default default selection is but we could just move that to the
top of the list. I might just go ahead and do this.

=back

=head1 Miscellaneous 

=over 

=item htop

Default to hiding userland threads

=item splash-term

Splash-term should tell you about the help option now.

=item .bashrc

/sbin and /usr/sbin are added to the user's path

=item urxvt-style should be fixed

It is an very easy way to customize the urxvt terminal emulator.

=item search-bar-icon is enabled by default

It allows you to search for highlighted text via a system try
icon.  

=item Graphical Conky is enabled by default

We are now using the same conkyrc for all the window managers.
The ghost window problem in IceWM seems to have been fixed
upstream.  Please let us know if it is still a problem for you.

=item The search applications have changed slightly.

Google search is now C<gg> instead of C<g>.  All search
applications require an argument of C<--> or C<--clipboard>
to do a search for the clipboard contents.

=back

